In the last lecture, we added our own validator and we saw this strange error code, let's see what it
is up with this error code.
So right now, this form is invalid,
this field is invalid and the overall form is invalid,
I can still submit it though because I haven't disabled the button.
So if we have a look at this,
we see the errors property on our form,
if we open this, it's null though.
The interesting part is if we have a look at our controls here,
for example the userData and then there on the controls, the username, here if we have a look at the errors,
you see the name is forbidden
true key-value pair.
So this is where Angular actually adds the error codes on the individual controls on the errors object,
so we could take advantage of this by going back to the HTML code and finetuning this error message.
Let's say we want to say the username is required if the field is empty
and we want to say this is an invalid username if it is invalid.
So we could say this field is required here, our current check will not suffice though because here we
only check if it's valid in general,
so here we could simply wrap another span in there
and check if
signupForm get userData username errors,
if this has the name is forbidden error. If it does have this, I want to say this name is invalid.
I'll also add another span
and here we need to find out what the actual message is
if the field is required, so I'll enter the text here for now but then we need to check what the error
message would be.
So let's quickly submit this form here and check on our controls, userData and there on the controls,
the username
and there again, the errors, we see here the code will just be required,
so we can now check if it contains the required error.
With that in place,
if I now click in here and out of there, we see the field is required,
if I type Anna in there, we see the name is invalid
and if we type something valid, we don't see anything.
So this is how we can use these error codes
and of course you could also use ngSwitch here or any other set up.
The key thing is to understand that these error codes can be used to show the right error messages
and of course you can come up with even more complex set ups where you have TypeScript objects in your
TypeScript code where you map error codes to specific messages and dynamically output that here.
This is the basic example, the basic way of using these codes.